# IteratorAbstract API

The `IteratorAbstract` class provides basic methods to cycle through a collection and add element.

`IteratorAbstract` class

* implements: `IteratorInterface`

## Public methods

* `getIterator() : ArrayIterator` - returns `ArrayIterator` with values from collection to be iterated on.

* `count() : int` - returns number of elements in collection.

* `clear() : void` - clears collection. All elements in collection will be removed.

* `isEmpty() : bool` - returns true if collection hasn't got any elements, otherwise returns false;

* `current() : mixed` - returns value of the collection element that's currently being pointed to by the internal pointer, or false if collection hasn't got any elements.

* `next() : mixed` - if collection has elements returns value in the next place that's pointed to by the internal array pointer, or false if collection hasn't got any elements.

* `key() : mixed` - if collection has elements returns key of the collection element that's currently being pointed to by the internal pointer, or false if collection hasn't got any elements.

* `first() : mixed` - if collection has elements returns first value of the collection, or false if collection hasn't got any elements.

* `last() : mixed` - if collection has elements returns last value of the collection, or false if collection hasn't got any elements.

* `rewind() : void` - if collection has elements returns set pointer to the first element of the collection and return them, or false if collection hasn't got any elements.

### Navigate

* next to [CollectionAbstract API](/docs/api/5_2.CollectionAbstractAPI.md)
* back to [API](/docs/5.API.md)
* go to [index](/docs/README.md)